---
layout: post
title: "finance-statements-and-reporting"
date: 2019-02-26 06:16:00 -0800
categories: finance-statements-and-reporting
---


sec.gov/edgar website
Search for company filings
10-k annual finiancial reporting.
google finance or yahoo finance to find ratios easily

TTM trailing

## The disclosure process
SEC regulation FD, for "fair disclosure" requires that companies ..


Good news = earnings per share.

Prior years, same quarter

Financial analysts, market research, specialized in industries, the provide analysts forecasts.

Market expectation in media usually means the mean (analyst concensus) /median of all available forecasts.

Many companies report their own forecasts. The company has more information. Management forescasts means that the companies voluntarily (voluntary disclosure).

Some papers report that outsider analysts are better at forecasting than management forecasts.

Business strategy -> Operatin decisions -> Transactions -> Financial statements

Gross profit for Costco is around 10%.

It is intentional that Costco to have low gross profit.

Current ratio = current assests/current liability.

current means that 1 year of business cycle.

The value of a company is comming from operations (finance activities does not add value to the company). Companies cannot add value from financial activities, just from operating activities.

### How stock price is determined
There are many
Finance and accounting.
Value of a co or stock price is decided by disconuted sum all future expected dividents.

Operating cash flow.

100 dollars in the bank at interest rate r.
100 x (1.1) = 110
100 x (1.1)^2 = 121

because many companies don't do dividends, many professors with (bSE + NI - div = eSE).

Accoutning valuation model.

Real stock price is computed based on the number of transactions.

Financial assets cannot generate money above interest rate.

ROE => Financial leverage

The DuPont Model
ROE = Net Profit Margin * Total asset turnover * Financial leverage

ROCE: The scheme
^
Profitability of overall company

Return on common equite

Accounting for value - Stephen Penman.

====

Accounting for Net Sales Revenue

Economic resources that require sacrifice of ... bnefit.

Revenue recognition => when we can report in the income statement.
Reporting revenues in the income statement.
we can do that Realized or relizable AND earned
                 ^                           ^
             cash is collected              product delivered


Account receivable. Is an asset, right to collect cash in the future.

The benefit of selling something on account is increasing revenue.

When companies accept credit cards, they cannont collect 100% (uncollectable receivables, called credit losses) if they become uncollectable as bad debt expense.

### Expense recognition principle / matching

Under current GAP. Based on recognition principle, report on the same period on when the revenue is recorded.

Revenues generated by this expense.

Match expense with revenue. US GAP requires certain method to report expenses in this way. Allowance method.

1. AR 1000 (company sold something on account)
     REV 1000


AR = 1,000 (some of these will not be collectable, the ammount of uncollectable ammount will be x)
Lets say 5% of this AR will not be collectable.

The 5% goes to another account called allowance. This is when we recognize bad debt expense.

(BAse d on estimation)
2. Bad debt expense 50 
     Allowance 50

Expense = small thing / windshield / starbucks cup of coffee
Capitalize = turbo charger / milk

Once it actually happened:
3. Allowance 50
     AR 50

**Matching principle**
The revenue and the expense must be reported in the same period.

2018   1. AR 1000       Rev       1000
       2. Bad debt 50   Allowance 50

2019   3. Allowance 50  AR        50


Let's say the company that was bankrupt we relalize we can now collect.
4. AR 30  Allowance 30
   Cash 30   AR 30

## Inventory ##
* Merchandisers: WalMart, Costco = Purchase finished goods from suppliers. Ready for re-sale.
    ** Finished goods inventory

* Manufacturers: Boeing, Toyota = 
    ** Raw materials inventory
    ** Work in process inveontory
    ** Finished goods inventory

INventory costs includes the costs to bring an article to usable or salable condition and location.

Actual flow. 
Cost flow. (Assumed flow, based on assumptions)

Inventory costing methods
 * Specific identification (diamonds)
 * First-in, first-out
 * Last-in, first-out
 * Average cost


EDGAR: https://www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html

### Revenue recognition principle
* Goods and services have been transfered to customers.
* The appropiate amount of revenue to record is the amount the seller expects to recieve.


## Allowance method
## Inventory cost assumptions (FIFO, LIFO)
* Merchandisers
* Manufacturers

## Program cost accounting
