---
layout: post
title: "ai"
date: 2019-06-30 08:16:00 -0800
categories: ai
published: false
---

the general problem solver
allen newel and herbert simon

physical symbol system hypothesis


1980...
the chinesse room argument


combinatorial explosion
strong aI (strong aI) - does not just apply to one narrow task

weak ai (narrow ai) - narrow task 


expert systems...

some refert to this as .. gofai (good old fashined ai)
they started to dissapear in the 1980s.

you can still find this in planning ai... 


heuristic reasoning. 


====

machine learning..
learn the new patterns by itself.
started shortly after AI conference.
In 1959 Arthur Samuel created a program that could play checkers
different frmo... playing against itself to get better.


big data/data scientits

without really knowing what you are looking for.

artificial neural netwokrs. tries to mimic the human brain.

neurons connect to one another.


artificial network. perceprtrons.

geoff 

deep learning.


deep learning and machine learning.


machine learning > symbolic reasoning.
machine learning, feeds on data to learn new things.


symbolic reasoning. can work when you have an abstract problem, but know steps to get to the solution.
machine learning. look for patterns. you dont really know the steps. and you have to look up for larger patterns to come up with the likeliest answer. requires several iterations. 
artificial neural networks.


deep learning, artificial network. put as much data as you can

supervised learning. training set. 
unsupervised learning.

backprop. backpropagation for errors.


regression


classify, 
	(sorting different types of data)

and regression analysis.
	looking for patterns




natural language processing.

- 


machine learning vs data mining.
ml requires training and frameworks.
dm uses a broader set of tools without requiring training.


does the program require abstract reasoning or detailed pattern matching?
